# Advertising Sigrok Compatible Products
We're happy to see that manufacturers and resellers are now recognising OpenTraceLab compatibility as a selling point. If you want to advertise that your product can be used with OpenTraceLab, we have some rules you should follow: ## Rules 1\\. **Your device must be fully supported in the current git master version of *OpenTraceCapture***. Any other version, patch or branch is not sufficient. It may work for you, but we need to make sure that it fully complies with our internal APIs, licensing rules and other requirements, so that we can continue to support it in future. Once a driver is accepted into the master branch, users know that it will be kept up to date in future releases. 2\\. **The protocols used by your device must be publicly documented**. This can be through your own protocol documentation, or information added to the OpenTraceLab wiki — as long as it is complete and accurate. If the source code to your device firmware is public (even if not under an open source license), that is also sufficient. Driver code alone is not sufficient. Others may need to reimplement support for your device in the future, and they need to know *why* the driver does what it does, and whether they can do things differently. 3\\. **If your device requires additional files at runtime, redistribution of these must be permitted**. This rule is only relevant if your device needs firmware or other data files to be uploaded by the driver every time the device is used. In this case, redistribution of the original unmodified files must be permitted, so that users do not need to download anything extra to use your device. 4\\. **You must not imply any endorsement of your product by us**. The OpenTraceLab project does not approve, recommend or guarantee equipment. Support for a given device in OpenTraceCapture doesn't mean we think it's any good. ## Logo If you follow these rules, then you can use the **Works with OpenTraceLab** logo on your product or advertising materials: \-
[*Image: \1*
Logo with text (SVG), transparent background
Please make the image a link to <http://OpenTraceLab.org> if you use it on a web page. This is a derived version of the *OpenTraceLab logo* specifically for advertising compatible products. Please **do not** use the normal OpenTraceLab logo, which is intended for things *developed by* the OpenTraceLab project. As a user, if you see this logo, you should take it as a statement by the manufacturer or seller that the product meets the guidelines above.
Retrieved from "[https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Advertising_OpenTraceLab_compatible_products&oldid=11028](https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Advertising_OpenTraceLab_compatible_products&oldid=11028)"
## See Also
- [Supported Hardware Overview](../supported-hardware.md)
- [OpenTraceCapture Documentation](../../opentracecapture/overview.md)
