# Device Discovery
## Contents
\- *1 Autodiscovery of devices* \- *1.1 Devices connected via USB* \- *1.2 Devices connected via Network* \- *1.2.1 VXI-11 broadcast* \- *1.2.2 DNS-SD/mDNS*
# Autodiscovery of devices Autodiscovery in OpenTraceLab is currently only implemented for USB devices. Network autodiscovery is **not** supported yet. ## Devices connected via USB Devices connected via USB can be discovered automatically in some cases: \- The device is uniquely identified by its Vendor and Product ID or \- The device is able to communicate bidirectionally and the communication protocol can be determined, e.g. from the USB class/subclass or by Vendor and Product ID. One example for the second class is USBTMC. USBTMC allows detection of the connected device using the GPIB/SCPI "\\*IDN?" request. ## Devices connected via Network LXI compatible devices can be automatically discovered on the network. The current LXI standard mandates discovery via VXI-11 broadcast and using DNS-SD/mDNS. Discovery via VXI-11 will be optional in the next standard revision (1.5). Even if a device is not LXI compliant, it may nevertheless implement VXI-11. ### VXI-11 broadcast Devices can be discovered using broadcasts to the portmapper port (111). Devices are required to implement a rudimentary VXI-11 services able to answer an "\\*IDN?" request. ### DNS-SD/mDNS Service Discovery via DNS (DNS-SD) in combination with multicast DNS (mDNS) allows discovery of all kinds of services. LXI specifies the following services (LXI Stanard rev. 1.4 (2011), 10.4.3): \- http (\\_http.\\_tcp) \- lxi (\\_lxi.\\_tcp) \- scpi-raw (\\_scpi-raw.\\_tcp) \- scpi-telnet (\\_scpi-telnet.\\_tcp) \- vxi-11 (\\_vxi-11.\\_tcp)
Retrieved from "[https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Device_discovery&oldid=11670](https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Device_discovery&oldid=11670)"
## See Also
- [Supported Hardware Overview](../supported-hardware.md)
- [OpenTraceCapture Documentation](../../opentracecapture/overview.md)
