# Example Dumps

We collect various captured logic analyzer signals / protocol dumps in the [OpenTraceLab-dumps](http://github.com/OpenTraceLab/?p=OpenTraceLab-dumps.git;a=tree) Git repository: They can be useful for testing the OpenTraceLab [command-line](OpenTraceCLI.html "OpenTraceCLI") application, the OpenTraceLab [GUIs](GUI.html "GUI"), or the [protocol decoders](Protocol_decoders.html "Protocol decoders"). ## Download **Tarball:** You can download [released tarballs](http://OpenTraceLab.org/download/source/OpenTraceLab-dumps/) of the OpenTraceLab-dumps file collection. **Git:** Alternatively, you can also get the latest files from the Git repository: $ git clone git://OpenTraceLab.org/OpenTraceLab-dumps ## License Unless otherwise noted, all dumps are released into the **public domain** by their respective authors. ## Contributing dumps We're happy to include further example data in our repository. Please send us **.sr** files of any interesting data/protocol you may come across (even if OpenTraceLab doesn't yet have a protocol decoder for that protocol). The easiest method is to clone the **OpenTraceLab-dumps** repository (e.g. [on GitHub](https://github.com/opentracelab/OpenTraceLab-dumps)) and ask us to pull from there (e.g. in IRC or on the mailing list). Alternatively, you can also send the files (and a README, see below) to the mailing list. Please include the following items: \- Protocol dumps in **.sr** format (the OpenTraceLab session format). Please do not send files in binary, VCD, CSV, or other formats. \- A README file ([example](http://github.com/OpenTraceLab/?p=OpenTraceLab-dumps.git;a=blob_plain;f=jtag/olimex_stm32-h103/README;hb=HEAD)) which contains info such as: \- Which logic analyzer hardware was used. \- Which target device was being probed (include vendor, name, description, relevant URLs, and so on, if possible). \- Which probes (number/name/color) were connected to which pins on the target device. \- Which exact [OpenTraceCLI](OpenTraceCLI.html "OpenTraceCLI") command line was used to generate the dump (includes device, samplerate, triggers, probe assignment, and so on). \- Any other relevant information about your setup, the device being probed, and so on. \- If you want to release the files under a (freeish) license other than "public domain", please let us know about that. 
Retrieved from "[https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Example_dumps&oldid=13041](https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Example_dumps&oldid=13041)"

## See Also
- [Supported Hardware Overview](../supported-hardware.md)
- [OpenTraceCapture Documentation](../../opentracecapture/overview.md)
