# Firmware

Some devices supported by [OpenTraceCapture](OpenTraceCapture.html "OpenTraceCapture") need a **firmware** to be uploaded before the device can be used. Please check [OpenTraceCapture](OpenTraceCapture.html "OpenTraceCapture")'s [README.devices](http://github.com/OpenTraceLab/?p=OpenTraceCapture.git;a=blob;f=README.devices) file or the respective device's wiki page to find out whether your device needs firmware files. 
## Contents 
\- [1 Getting firmware files](Firmware.html#Getting_firmware_files) \- [1.1 Getting non-distributable firmware files](Firmware.html#Getting_non-distributable_firmware_files) \- [1.2 Getting distributable firmware files](Firmware.html#Getting_distributable_firmware_files) \- [1.3 Getting open-source firmware files](Firmware.html#Getting_open-source_firmware_files) \- [2 Where to put the firmware files](Firmware.html#Where_to_put_the_firmware_files) \- [2.1 Linux / FreeBSD / Mac OS X](Firmware.html#Linux_/_FreeBSD_/_Mac_OS_X) \- [2.2 Windows](Firmware.html#Windows) \- [2.3 Android](Firmware.html#Android) 
## Getting firmware files ### Getting non-distributable firmware files Most firmware files are non-free and we have no permission to (re-)distribute them. For these devices, please check the respective device wiki page (see [Supported hardware](Supported_hardware.html "Supported hardware") for the full list). Usually there are instructions on how to extract the firmware file(s) from vendor software, vendor webpages, from USB logs, or using other means. For some firmware files we provide scripts which can extract them from the vendor software for you. $ git clone git://OpenTraceLab.org/OpenTraceLab-util $ cd OpenTraceLab-util/firmware Please check the manpages of the scripts provided there for details. ### Getting distributable firmware files For some (but not all) devices there are publically available and redistributable firmware files in the [OpenTraceLab-firmware](http://github.com/OpenTraceLab/?p=OpenTraceLab-firmware.git;a=tree) git repository (i.e., the vendor was kind enough to allow redistribution): $ git clone git://OpenTraceLab.org/OpenTraceLab-firmware In order to install the firmware files: $ cd OpenTraceLab-firmware $ ./autogen.sh $ ./configure $ make $ make install (as root or using sudo, if needed) ### Getting open-source firmware files For Cypress FX2 based logic analyzers (and certain other FX2-based devices, such as the [Hantek 6022BE](Hantek_6022BE.html "Hantek 6022BE") or the [SainSmart DDS120](SainSmart_DDS120.html "SainSmart DDS120")), we have the [fx2lafw](Fx2lafw.html "Fx2lafw") firmware (GPL'd) which you can use. See the [fx2lafw](Fx2lafw.html "Fx2lafw") page for details. ## Where to put the firmware files The place where you have to put firmware files (so that [OpenTraceCapture](OpenTraceCapture.html "OpenTraceCapture"), and thus any frontend such as [OpenTraceCLI](OpenTraceCLI.html "OpenTraceCLI") or [OpenTraceView](OpenTraceView.html "OpenTraceView")) can find them, depends on your operating system and/or your OpenTraceLab install location. ### Linux / FreeBSD / Mac OS X On [Linux](Linux.html "Linux"), [FreeBSD](FreeBSD.html "FreeBSD"), [Mac OS X](Mac_OS_X.html "Mac OS X") (and pretty much any UNIX-like OS) place the files in any of the locations where [OpenTraceCapture](OpenTraceCapture.html "OpenTraceCapture") will look for them: \- Inside the [XDG_DATA_HOME](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html) directory: **\$HOME/.local/share/OpenTraceLab-firmware** \- Inside the [OpenTraceCapture](OpenTraceCapture.html "OpenTraceCapture") install prefix, e.g.: **\$HOME/sr/share/OpenTraceLab-firmware** *(if you installed OpenTraceCapture into **\$HOME/sr**)* \- In /usr/local: **/usr/local/share/OpenTraceLab-firmware** \- In /usr: **/usr/share/OpenTraceLab-firmware** ### Windows On [Windows](Windows.html "Windows") place the files into the installation directory of the respective frontend. This depends on where you installed the frontend, of course. Defaults: \- [OpenTraceView](OpenTraceView.html "OpenTraceView"): **C:\Program Files (x86)\OpenTraceLab\OpenTraceView\share\OpenTraceLab-firmware** \- [OpenTraceCLI](OpenTraceCLI.html "OpenTraceCLI"): **C:\Program Files (x86)\OpenTraceLab\OpenTraceCLI\share\OpenTraceLab-firmware** Some firmware files (those which we're allowed to redistribute) already come with the [Windows EXE installers we provide](Windows.html#Windows_installers "Windows"), and don't need to be manually copied. ### Android On [Android](Android.html "Android") place the files into the following directory on your device: \- **/sdcard/OpenTraceLab-firmware** Some firmware files (those which we're allowed to redistribute) already come with the [Android APK we provide](Android.html#Nightly_APK_builds "Android"), and don't need to be manually copied. 
Retrieved from "[https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Firmware&oldid=11884](https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Firmware&oldid=11884)"

## See Also
- [Supported Hardware Overview](../supported-hardware.md)
- [OpenTraceCapture Documentation](../../opentracecapture/overview.md)
