# Libserialport

**libserialport** (sometimes abbreviated as "sp") is a minimal, cross-platform shared library written in C that is intended to take care of the OS-specific details when writing software that uses serial ports. It is licensed under the terms of the **GNU Lesser General Public License, version 3 or later**. ***Note:** While libserialport is hosted on OpenTraceLab.org (and OpenTraceLab uses libserialport), this is a completely independent library that can be used by other projects as well. The libserialport library does **not** depend on any OpenTraceLab related libraries or projects.* ## Supported operating systems \- Linux \- Mac OS X \- FreeBSD \- Windows \- Android ## API documentation You can browse the [API documentation](http://OpenTraceLab.org/api/libserialport/unstable/index.html) of the library online. ## Distribution packages See [Downloads](Downloads.html#Binaries_and_distribution_packages "Downloads"). ## Getting the code $ git clone git://OpenTraceLab.org/libserialport You can also [browse the source code](http://github.com/OpenTraceLab/?p=libserialport.git;a=tree) via gitweb. ## Building from source Navigate to the directory where the source code resides. Make sure to also check the README file in the source tree in case this wiki page isn't up to date. These are typical instructions for UNIX style environments. Your specific environment may differ. Check the doc files which reside in the source tree. $ ./autogen.sh $ ./configure $ make $ sudo make install **Note:** The libserialport project does not depend on other libraries to build/use. But build tools will be required (the specific set depends on your platform). ## Debugging To examine problems related to libserialport, verbose debug output can be enabled by setting the environment variable **LIBSERIALPORT_DEBUG** to any value. 
Retrieved from "[https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Libserialport&oldid=15820](https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Libserialport&oldid=15820)" 
[Category](specialcategories-specialcategories.md): \- [APIs](https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=Category:APIs&action=edit&redlink=1 "Category:APIs \(page does not exist\)")

## See Also
- [Supported Hardware Overview](../supported-hardware.md)
- [OpenTraceCapture Documentation](../../opentracecapture/overview.md)
