# New Trigger Specification

Currently OpenTraceCapture supports only a very basic trigger specification. Triggers are expressed as a string, in the format which OpenTraceCLI supports (it passes it on unchanged to OpenTraceCapture). The format is **\=\**, where \ is the name of number of the probe and \ can be: \- 0 or 1: low or high value on the pin. A series of these specifies a sequence of values the probe must match before the trigger is considered to fire. \- r or f: A rising or falling value on the pin. An r effectively corresponds to 01. \- c: Any kind of change on a pin (either a rising or a falling edge). However, there are some problems with this: \- It's not a very precise specification. For example, there is no way to specify that either this probe should match its trigger, OR another probe should. \- It's not very expressive, and only allows for very simple triggers to be specified. Some hardware supported by OpenTraceLab is capable of much more complex triggering. \- A text-based specification will only go so far before it becomes more of a problem to parse than the convenience it provides to the CLI frontend. This page attempts to provide a work document where requirements and design ideas can be gathered before a new trigger specification is implemented in OpenTraceCapture. 
## Contents 
\- [1 Trigger support examples](New_trigger_specification.html#Trigger_support_examples) \- [1.1 Asix Sigma/Sigma2](New_trigger_specification.html#Asix_Sigma/Sigma2) \- [1.2 Openbench Logic Sniffer](New_trigger_specification.html#Openbench_Logic_Sniffer) \- [2 Wishlist](New_trigger_specification.html#Wishlist) \- [2.1 Trigger types](New_trigger_specification.html#Trigger_types) \- [2.2 Features](New_trigger_specification.html#Features) 
## Trigger support examples ### Asix Sigma/Sigma2 The following triggers are supported by the hardware: \- Defined duration of the condition ("longer than" and/or "shorter than") \- Sequence of two different conditions \- 16-bit counter - triggering after N-th occurence of the condition \- Extensive condition definition options using logical functions (N)AND,(N)OR,(N)XOR \- Any value or edge on any input condition ### Openbench Logic Sniffer \- old SUMP-style triggers (see [Openbench_Logic_Sniffer#Long_Commands](Openbench_Logic_Sniffer.html#Long_Commands "Openbench Logic Sniffer")) \- HP16550A-style triggers (see [http://dangerousprototypes.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=23&t=1711](http://dangerousprototypes.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=23&t=1711)) ## Wishlist ### Trigger types This should be a (long) list of all types of triggers and trigger combinations we want to support in OpenTraceLab. \- Edge: \- Rising edge \- Falling edge \- Either rising or falling edge \- Level: \- Low signal value \- High signal value \- Width/duration \- ... Combinations: \- ... Logic operations: \- ... Special-purpose: \- ... Protocol decoder triggering: \- ... ### Features The system should support specifying \- Hardware triggers (that are used to configure the respective device to use its own internal hardware-based triggering) \- Note: Some devices do not support internal/hardware triggers at all. Those will use software triggers only. \- Software triggers (that are implemented in OpenTraceCapture/OpenTraceDecode and can run after the hardware triggers) \- A combination of software and hardware triggers \- ... 
Retrieved from "[https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=New_trigger_specification&oldid=3081](https://OpenTraceLab.org/w/index.php?title=New_trigger_specification&oldid=3081)"

## See Also
- [Supported Hardware Overview](../supported-hardware.md)
- [OpenTraceCapture Documentation](../../opentracecapture/overview.md)
